# ODCD (OpenTelemetry Data Collector for Telemetry Data)

**[Semantic Convention](../docs/semconv)** |
**[Support](../docs/support/README.md)** |
**[Changelog](../CHANGELOG.md)** |
**[Contributing](../CONTRIBUTING.md)** |
**[License](../LICENSE)**

---
ODCD (OpenTelemetry Data Collector for Telemetry Data) is a collection of stanalone OpenTelemetry receivers for databases, systems, and apps. All implementations are based on predefined OpenTelemetry Semantic Conventions. A standard OTLP exporter is provided to forward the data from this "Data Collector" to a Telemetry backend or an OpenTelemetry Collector.

<br><br>

# Data Collector for Hosts


## Requirements

- Java 11+

Ensure that Java SDK 11+ is installed.
```bash
java -version
```


## Run Data Collector with release (for end users)
Download the latest  [Release package](https://github.com/instana/otel-dc/releases/tag/Release) according to the operating system.


1) Download the installation package:
```bash
wget https://github.com/instana/otel-dc/releases/download/v1.0.1/otel-dc-host-0.2.2.tar
```

2) Extract the package to the desired deployment location:
```bash
tar vxf otel-dc-host-0.2.2.tar
cd otel-dc-host-0.2.2
```

3) Make sure following configuration files are correct for your environment:
  - config/config.yaml
  - config/logging.properties

Refine configuration file (config/config.yaml) according to your host. Right now we provide Data Collector for following hosts:
  - SNMP Host
  - IBM MQ appliance
  - Simple Linux Host

*Note:* The default configuration file config/config.yaml is for linux host. If you want to monitor an IBM MQ appliance, you can copy config/config-mqappliance.yaml to config/config.yaml, or you can also use environment variable "DC_CONFIG" to specify the configuration file, for example:
```bash
export DC_CONFIG=config/config-mqappliance.yaml
```

Notes for some parameters：
- `otel.backend.url`：The OTel gRPC address of the OTel backends, for example Instana Agent (as OTel Backend): http://localhost:4317
- `otel.service.name`：The Data Collector name, which can be any string you choose.

4) Run Data Collector
Run the Data Collector with the following command according to your current system:
```bash
nohup ./bin/otel-dc-host
```


## Build & Run (for develpers)

1) Make sure Java SDK 11+ is installed.
```bash
java -version
```

2) Get the source code from `github.com`.
```bash
git clone https://github.com/instana/otel-dc.git
cd otel-dc/host
```

3) Build with Gradle
```bash
./gradlew clean build
```
*Note: gradle 7.4 will be installed if you do not have it.*

4) Make sure following configuration files are correct for your environment:
  - config/config.yaml
  - config/logging.properties

Refine configuration file (config/config.yaml) according to your host. Right now we provide Data Collector for following hosts:
  - SNMP Host
  - IBM MQ appliance
  - Simple Linux Host

*Note:* The default configuration file config/config.yaml is for linux host. If you want to monitor an IBM MQ appliance, you can copy config/config-mqappliance.yaml to config/config.yaml, or you can also use environment variable "DC_CONFIG" to specify the configuration file, for example:
```bash
export DC_CONFIG=config/config-mqappliance.yaml
```

5) Start up your OTLP backend which accept OTLP connections. Right now we support following protocols:
- otlp/grpc
- otlp/http

```bash
./gradlew run
```
*Note:* If you want to monitor IBM MQ appliance, you need to install **expect** before starting the Data Collector. You can run the command `which expect` to check if **expect** is already installed.


6) *Appendix:* Run binary in "build/distributions"
Find the deployment package (e.g.:otel-dc-rdb-*.tar/otel-dc-host-*.tar/otel-dc-host-*.tar) generated by gradle in the "build/distributions/" directory, extract deployment files:
```bash
cd build/distributions/
tar vxf otel-dc-host-*.tar
rm -f *.tar *.zip
cd otel-dc-host-*
```

Modify the configuration files.
Then, make sure following configuration files are correct for your environment.:
  - config/config.yaml
  - config/logging.properties

Run the Data Collector with following command according to your current implentation:
```bash
export DC_CONFIG=config/config.yaml
export JAVA_OPTS=-Dconfig/logging.properties
bin/otel-dc-rdb
```
Or run Data Collector in background
```bash
export DC_CONFIG=config/config.yaml
export JAVA_OPTS=-Dconfig/logging.properties
nohup bin/otel-dc-host > /dev/null 2>&1 &
```